---
layout: post
title: "Pachli 3.0.0 starts now"
date: "2025-09-01 09:00:00 +0200"
categories: pachli
---
[Pachli 2.16.0](/pachli/2025/08/28/2.16.0-release.html) marks the end of the 2.x.x releases.

Pachli 2.0.0 introduced support for server-side translation, and [implementing client-side translation](/pachli/2025/08/28/2.16.0-release.html#support-on-device-translation-if-installed-from-google-play) was always going to close it out. I've been wanting to get that finished for some time, but other features kept edging it out.

Now that's been pushed over the line the theme for the 3.x.x releases is "More servers, more accounts".

Roughly, that means features that...

<!--more-->

- **...work on non-Mastodon servers**, e.g., emoji reactions to posts, or finer grained reply controls.
- **...let you work with multiple servers from one account**, e.g., adding a tab that shows you the local timeline of a different server. I don't want to follow everyone on [androiddev.social](https://androiddev.social), but keeping an eye on their local timeline is going to occasionally show me interesting things.
- **... improve the experience if you are signed in with multiple accounts**, e.g., if you're signed in with two accounts A and B, and you see a post on your timeline as account A, you'll be able to act on that post (reply, boost, favourite, etc) as account B without needing to switch accounts first.

This doesn't mean these are the only features that will be worked on over the life of the 3.x.x releases. For example, there's work to be done to incorporate new Mastodon features like quote posts, and just like the 2.x.x releases included many features unrelated to the "translation" theme I expect the same to be true of the 3.x.x releases. 

